Document IL2125 and IL3058 transitive reference compatibility warnings (#50266)
dotnet/docs: docs/core/deploying/native-aot/warnings/il3058.md

---
title: "IL3058: Referenced assembly is not annotated for AOT compatibility"
description: "Learn about warning IL3058: Referenced assembly is not annotated for AOT compatibility"
ms.date: 12/02/2024
f1_keywords:
  - "IL3058"

> ---

Reviewer: @copilot apply changes based on [this feedback](https://github.com/dotnet/docs/pull/50266#discussion_r2590912764)

---
title: "IL3058: Referenced assembly is not annotated for AOT compatibility"
description: "Learn about warning IL3058: Referenced assembly is not annotated for AOT compatibility"
ms.date: 12/02/2025
ai-usage: ai-assisted
f1_keywords:
  - "IL3058"
---
# IL3058: Referenced assembly is not annotated for AOT compatibility

## Cause

A project has `<VerifyReferenceAotCompatibility>true</VerifyReferenceAotCompatibility>` set, and one or more referenced assemblies don't have the `IsAotCompatible` assembly metadata attribute set to `true`.

## Rule description

> When you enable AOT analysis with `<EnableAotAnalyzer>true</EnableAotAnalyzer>`, `<PublishAot>true</PublishAot>`, or mark your project as AOT-compatible with `<IsAotCompatible>true</IsAotCompatible>`, you can optionally enable verification that all referenced assemblies are also annotated for AOT compatibility. This helps ensure that all dependencies in your project are annotated for AOT compatibility.

Reviewer: @copilot Remove mention of `EnableAotAnalyzer` - the other two properties are the recommended way. Same for `EnableTrimAnalyzer`.

---
title: "IL3058: Referenced assembly is not annotated for AOT compatibility"
description: "Learn about warning IL3058: Referenced assembly is not annotated for AOT compatibility"
ms.date: 12/02/2024
ai-usage: ai-assisted
f1_keywords:
  - "IL3058"
---
# IL3058: Referenced assembly is not annotated for AOT compatibility

## Cause

A project has `<VerifyReferenceAotCompatibility>true</VerifyReferenceAotCompatibility>` set, and one or more referenced assemblies don't have the `IsAotCompatible` assembly metadata attribute set to `true`.

## Rule description

> When you enable AOT analysis with `<EnableAotAnalyzer>true</EnableAotAnalyzer>` or mark your project as AOT-compatible with `<IsAotCompatible>true</IsAotCompatible>`, you can optionally enable verification that all referenced assemblies are also annotated for AOT compatibility. This helps ensure that all dependencies in your project are annotated for AOT compatibility.

Reviewer 2: nit: also when `<PublishAOT>true</PublishAOT>` is set?

```xml
<PropertyGroup>
  <EnableAotAnalyzer>true</EnableAotAnalyzer>
  <VerifyReferenceAotCompatibility>true</VerifyReferenceAotCompatibility>
</PropertyGroup>
```

When this property is enabled, the analyzer checks that all referenced assemblies have been built with `<IsAotCompatible>true</IsAotCompatible>`, which adds the assembly-level attribute `[assembly: AssemblyMetadata("IsAotCompatible", "True")]` to the assembly.

## Example

```csharp
// Assembly reference: MyLibrary.dll (built without <IsAotCompatible>true</IsAotCompatible>)

public class Program
{
    public static void Main()
    {
        var obj = new MyLibrary.SomeClass();
    }
}
```

```
warning IL3058: Referenced assembly 'MyLibrary' is not built with `<IsAotCompatible>true</IsAotCompatible>` and may not be compatible with AOT.
```

## How to fix violations

You have several options to fix this warning:

1. **Update the referenced library** to be built with `<IsAotCompatible>true</IsAotCompatible>`. This is the preferred approach if you control the library source code. The `IsAotCompatible` property marks the assembly as compatible with Native AOT and enables AOT-specific analysis.

> 2. **Disable the verification** by setting `<VerifyReferenceAotCompatibility>false</VerifyReferenceAotCompatibility>` in your project file if you're confident that the library works correctly with Native AOT even without the attribute.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- **Update the referenced library** to be built with `<IsAotCompatible>true</IsAotCompatible>`. This is the preferred approach if you control the library source code. The `IsAotCompatible` property marks the assembly as compatible with Native AOT and enables AOT-specific analysis.
- **Disable the verification** by setting `<VerifyReferenceAotCompatibility>false</VerifyReferenceAotCompatibility>` in your project file if you're confident that the library works correctly with Native AOT even without the attribute.
```
